when doing a spindle bearing job a few
preliminaries
necessary before the real work can begin
first index the spindle you want to
remove into the second position then
install a lock on the main electrical
panel box disconnect
push the start button to make sure the
machine will not start remove the spool
guards on the front side of the machine
remove the bar stock push your tube
assembly and collet tube assembly remove
any tool holders in the second position
both end tool slide and cross slide you
may also wish to clean the finger holder
in spindle gear area with solvent prior
to beginning the disassembly process now
it is time to remove the finger holder
assembly
you may need to remove two finger holder
assemblies so that you have enough room
to get the center gear off or at least
enough room to get the inside bolt out
of the rear retainer make sure to check
where the retaining bolts set in the
spindle to see if the finger holder has
spun on the spindle this will leave a
groove all or part of the way around the
spindle and weaken it disassemble the
finger holder assemblies
inspect the finger holder spool for
evidence of finger contact where if the
cams are worn badly the finger holder
will pop open when you run a bar stock
and hang up on the chucking shoe if
excessive wear is seen you can correct
it by ream ihling the key way on the
finger holder body this will permit the
fingers to ride on fresh finger holder
spool material inspect the cams fingers
and pins after inspecting the fingers
for obvious wear place the three fingers
together on a common pin to check that
the contact surfaces are parallel
replace the fingers and pins you may
need to kiss grind the thrust plate to
remove the wear grooves from where the
fingers ride prior to installing the
finger pin set screws you may want to
coat the set screws with Loctite this
will prevent the screws from backing off
during production
remove the split nut from the spindle
inside the headstock
remove the bolts from the front of the
retainer
to remove the spindle it is best to have
a knock on plug made of aluminum or
brass which will fit inside the spindle
and butt up against the end of the
spindle but if you do not have an
aluminum or brass knockout plug you
could get by holding a wooden 2x4 and
back of the spindle then use a piece of
bar stock preferably hex as it slides
more easily through the stock rail tube
to knock the spindle off this helps to
prevent the painting of the end of the
spindle which would make it much more
difficult to put the finger holder back
on the spindle when you remove the
spindle
you may need to catch the inside sleeve
now remove the cotter pin the nut
and the spindle gear from the end of the
spindle driveshaft
remove the bolts from the rear retainer
and plop the retainer and barring out
inspect the rear bearing the flinger and
the retainer for removing the bearing
races
I made an 18 inch long punch from
five-eighths hex steel bar stock tapered
on one end to ensure the proper angle
for tapping out the bearings be careful
not to jam the race by hitting on the
same side every time
if the race stops moving switch to
hitting the race directly across from
where you were hitting it before then
inspect the bearing bores to make sure
the racism not spun on them if they are
worn you may need to take your carrier
out and send it to a rebuilder to have
the Boers corrected
slide your hot flinger on the spindle
you should have a heavy bushing which
will fit over the spindle the bushing is
important in case the flinger or bearing
does not drop all the way down